contrib/cni/README.md, before:

## `contrib/cni` ##

There are a wide variety of different [CNI][cni] network configurations. This
directory just contains some example configurations that can be used as the
basis for your own configurations (distributions should package these files in
example directories).

To use these configurations, place them in `/etc/cni/net.d` (or the directory
specified by `crio.network.network_dir` in your overwrite of `/etc/crio/crio.conf.d`).

In addition, you need to install the [CNI plugins][cni] necessary into
`/opt/cni/bin` (or the directories specified by `crio.network.plugin_dir`). The
two plugins necessary for the example CNI configurations are `loopback` and
`bridge`. Below is a tutorial on downloading and setting up the CNI plugins.

[cni]: https://github.com/containernetworking/plugins

### Plugins tutorial

This tutorial will use the latest version of `CNI` plugins from the master branch and build it from source.

Download the `CNI` plugins source tree:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/containernetworking/plugins
cd plugins
git checkout v0.8.1
```

Build the `CNI` plugins:

```
./build_linux.sh # or build_windows.sh
```

Output:

```
Building plugins
  bandwidth
  firewall
  flannel
  portmap
  sbr
  tuning
  bridge
  host-device
  ipvlan
  loopback
  macvlan
  ptp
  vlan
  dhcp
  host-local
  static
```

Install the `CNI` plugins:

```
sudo mkdir -p /opt/cni/bin
sudo cp bin/* /opt/cni/bin/
```

Commit message:

Add cni-default-network option
Added `--cni-default-network`/`cni_default_network` option to specify
the CNI network to select. The default value is `crio`, but this option
can be explicitly set to `""` to pickup the first network found in
`--cni-config-dir`/`network_dir`.

Signed-off-by: Sascha Grunert <sgrunert@suse.com>

contrib/cni/README.md, after:

## `contrib/cni` ##

There are a wide variety of different [CNI][cni] network configurations. This
directory just contains some example configurations that can be used as the
basis for your own configurations (distributions should package these files in
example directories).

To use these configurations, place them in `/etc/cni/net.d` (or the directory
specified by `crio.network.network_dir` in your overwrite of `/etc/crio/crio.conf.d`).

CRI-O will only choose the network that has been specified via
`crio.network.cni_default_network`.

In addition, you need to install the [CNI plugins][cni] necessary into
`/opt/cni/bin` (or the directories specified by `crio.network.plugin_dir`). The
two plugins necessary for the example CNI configurations are `loopback` and
`bridge`. Below is a tutorial on downloading and setting up the CNI plugins.

[cni]: https://github.com/containernetworking/plugins

### Plugins tutorial

This tutorial will use the latest version of `CNI` plugins from the master branch and build it from source.

Download the `CNI` plugins source tree:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/containernetworking/plugins
cd plugins
git checkout v0.8.1
```

Build the `CNI` plugins:

```
./build_linux.sh # or build_windows.sh
```

Output:

```
Building plugins
  bandwidth
  firewall
  flannel
  portmap
  sbr
  tuning
  bridge
  host-device
  ipvlan
  loopback
  macvlan
  ptp
  vlan
  dhcp
  host-local
  static
```

Install the `CNI` plugins:

```
sudo mkdir -p /opt/cni/bin
sudo cp bin/* /opt/cni/bin/
```
